|      | 学  |   教   |
|:----:|:---:|:------:|
| 入世 | 儒、哲学  |   道   |
| 出世 |     | 佛、道 |

# 宗教
## 佛
## 道
# 世俗
## 儒
### 孔孟儒学
### 宋明儒学
<details><summary>二者区别</summary>
- An ideology has as its foundation in an identifiable and agreed upon set of ideas, values, assumptions, scientific precepts or perspectives on historical events or material evidence. It is a value system that may serve to answer many questions, or may give a framework to life that justifies or compels certain actions. An ideology is usually a world view that is not primarily thought to be based on faith or belief. It is usually materially, socially or politically stated. An ideology is not usually thought to be rooted in any one particular figure of authority, organization or institution, but many, and can even have few or no organizations that propagate it. It may simply be a belief system, or set of values, apart from the actions of any authority, though it may spring from a single origin. Many may share an ideology without ever knowing how it came to be or how it is known. An ideology is not tightly controlled, though it may be influenced by certain parties or many organizations. Direct instructions on how to behave may or may not be directly expressed, but are often implied.
-
-  Conversely, a religion needs an actual physical doctrine, a specific book or body of texts, on which the entire institution is based. Faith and belief are expected by religion, and it is maintained by a specific housed authority or central body of persons or an organization which is responsible for organizing and maintaining its continuity and authority. The teaching, regulating and requiring of certain ritual experiences is significant, and they are rooted in and official centralized authority. A religion often has laws or rules that adherents are expected to follow, and the authority reserves for itself the right to expel people from the community of adherents if they violate certain restrictions on belief or behavior.
- 
- Both religions and ideologies imply a cosmology - which could be said to be a statement about what the world is, how it works and what part of it we are.</details>
